# Model Definition

**Manifest path: `$.models[*]`**

You can think of a model as a **MySQL table**, an **Elasticsearch Index**, etc.

A model definition needs to specify details about `attributes` of the model, *protocol specific* 
`properties` for the model, and some additional information.

## Example

```json title="Model Definition example" linenums="1"
{
  "records": 100,
  "persistence": "FULL",
  "datastore": "a_datastore",
  "properties": {
      "tableName": "anoter_model_tbl"
  },
  "attributes": {
      // attribute definitions //
  }
}
```

## Fields

* ### `attributes` (object) [required]

    **Manifest path: `$.models[*].attributes`**

    Each model will generally have a set of attributes associated with it.

    Please view [Attributes](../attributes/attributes.md) for further details.

* ### `persistence` (string)
    
    **Manifest path: `$.models[*].persistence`**
  
    Dore allows you to specify various persistence levels for models. 
  
    Please view [Model Persistence](./model_persistence.md) for details.

* ### `datastore` (string)

    **Manifest path: `$.models[*].datastore`**

    Datastore ID of the datastore associated with the model. This is a required field in cases of models that have
    `FULL` persistence levels.
  
* ### `records` (integer)

    **Manifest path: `$.models[*].records`**

    Specify count of records to be generated for the model.

    ??? note "Note: The actual count may vary"

        The actual number of records that Dore generates for a model will depend on the value provided here as well as 
        the `--scale-factor` value provided during invocation.

        For example, if a model has `records` as `10000`, and we provide a `--scale-factor` value of `0.1` when
        invoking Dore, the actual number of records generated by Dore will be `10000 * 0.1 = 1000`.


* ### `properties` (object)

    **Manifest path: `$.models[*].properties`**

    This config is used to specify protocol specific properties for the model.
  
    Protocol specific properties of a model are required only when there is a need to persist the model and its 
    records in any datastore. That is, the model is linked to a datastore and `persistence` on the model is set to `"FULL"` 
    or is not explicitly mentioned in the manifest (as the Dore assumes the default `persistence` as `"FULL"` if it is 
    not specified).
  
    Since each protocol has different requirements for configuring a model, this config varies from one protocol to the 
    other. Please refer the protocol specific sections below for details:
  
    * [MySQL Model properties](/protocols/mysql/#model-properties)
    * [Postgres Model properties](/protocols/postgresql/#model-properties)
    * [MongoDB Model properties](/protocols/mongodb/#model-properties)
    * [Elasticsearch Model properties](/protocols/elasticsearch/#model-properties)
    